(SERVER-2822) Doc updates for multithreaded mode (#2360)
puppetlabs/puppetserver: documentation/puppet_server_metrics_performance.markdown

Several factors can limit your Server infrastructure's ability to produce JRubies.

> > **Note:** In multithreaded mode, instead of producing multiple independent JRuby instances, the server runs a single JRuby instance that can process a limited number of threads. These two concepts are analogous when considering request-handling capacity, though threads are much cheaper in terms of system resources, so you may have more vertical scalability in multithreaded mode.

Reviewer: This note seems a little out of place here? The first sentence seems relevant to mention here, but the second should maybe go in the `Request-handling capacity` section?

Author: I can split it up.

#### Adding more JRubies

> If you must add JRubies, remember that Puppet Server is tuned by default to use one fewer than your total number of CPUs, with a maximum of 4 CPUs, for the number of available JRubies. You can change this by setting `max-active-instances` in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf], under the `jruby-puppet` section. In the default mode, increasing `max-active-instances` creates whole independent JRuby instances. In multithreaded mode, this setting instead controls the number of threads that the single JRuby instance will process concurrently, and therefore has different scaling characteristics. Tuning recommendations for this mode are under development, see [SERVER-2823](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/SERVER-2823).

Reviewer 2: I think a typo? [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf]

When running in the default mode, follow these guidelines for allocating resources when adding JRubies:

Each JRuby also has a certain amount of persistent memory overhead required in order to load both Puppet's Ruby code and your Puppet code. In other words, your available memory sets a baseline limit to how much Puppet code you can process. Catalog compilation can consume more memory, and Puppet Server's total memory usage depends on the number of agents being served, how frequently those agents check in, how many resources are being managed on each agent, and the complexity of the manifests and modules in use.

> A JRuby requires a minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7, and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off` to compile a nearly empty catalog. This includes memory for the scripting container, Puppet's Ruby code and additional memory overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compile a nearly-empty catalog, a JRuby requires a minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7 and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off`. This includes memory for the scripting container, Puppet's Ruby code, and additional memory overhead.
```

Reviewer: also, does the `compile-mode` bit only refer to JRuby9k? that part is a bit confusing to me.

Author: Looks like the default is "off" for 1.7 and "jit" for 9k, so this may indicate that the comparison was done with the setting "off" for both versions.

Reviewer: hmm okay then how about..
```suggestion
With the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] set to `off`, a JRuby requires at least 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7 and at least 60MB under JRuby9k in order to compile a nearly empty catalog. This includes memory for the scripting container, Puppet's Ruby code and additional memory overhead.
```

Author: I think that makes sense.

> As a general rule, adding a JRuby requires a bare minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7, and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off` - the amount of memory for the scripting container, plus Puppet's Ruby code and additional memory overhead - just to compile a nearly empty catalog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A JRuby requires a minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7, and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off` to compile a nearly empty catalog. This includes memory for the scripting container, Puppet's Ruby code and additional memory overhead.
```

If you must add JRubies, remember that Puppet Server is tuned by default to use one fewer than your total number of CPUs, with a maximum of 4 CPUs, for the number of available JRubies. You can change this by setting `max-active-instances` in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf], under the `jruby-puppet` section.

> > **Note:** The following applies only to the normal mode where increasing `max-active-instances` creates whole independent JRuby instances. In multithreaded mode, this setting instead controls the number of threads that the single JRuby instance will process concurrently, and therefore has different scaling characteristics. Tuning recommendations for this mode are under development, see [SERVER-2823](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/SERVER-2823).

Reviewer: Why not put this note above the first paragraph of this section?

Reviewer 2: Yes I agree. And also starting with "Adding more JRubies applies only to...etc". Instead of "The following...".

Author: If you're considering "a JRuby" to just as easily mean "a JRuby thread", the first paragraph applies to both modes equally. We use the same defaults and control the number with the same setting. But I'll rework this a bit, into that first paragraph. I still want to indicate that all the stuff in the paragraphs below about resourcing doesn't apply to threaded mode, but we don't know what to recommend instead yet.

Reviewer: I don't love considering "a JRuby" to be an instance or a thread. I think, since we've already been referring to instances as "JRubies", we should be explicit when referring to threads.

I think it's much clearer now. 👍

Each JRuby also has a certain amount of persistent memory overhead required in order to load both Puppet's Ruby code and your Puppet code. In other words, your available memory sets a baseline limit to how much Puppet code you can process. Catalog compilation can consume more memory, and Puppet Server's total memory usage depends on the number of agents being served, how frequently those agents check in, how many resources are being managed on each agent, and the complexity of the manifests and modules in use.

> As a general rule, adding a JRuby requires a bare minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7, and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off` --- the amount of memory for the scripting container, plus Puppet's Ruby code, plus additional memory overhead --- just to compile a nearly empty catalog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a general rule, adding a JRuby requires a bare minimum of 40MB of memory under JRuby 1.7, and at least 60MB under JRuby9k if the `jruby-puppet.compile-mode` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] is set to `off` - the amount of memory for the scripting container, plus Puppet's Ruby code and additional memory overhead - just to compile a nearly empty catalog.
```

A memory leak or increased memory pressure can stress Puppet Server's available resources. In this case, the Java VM will spend more time doing garbage collection, causing the GC time and GC CPU % metrics to increase. These metrics are available from the [status API][] endpoint, as well as in the mbeans metrics available from both the [`/metrics/v1/mbeans`](./metrics-api/v1/metrics_api.markdown) or [`/metrics/v2/`](./metrics-api/v2/metrics_api.markdown) endpoints.

If you can't identify the source of a memory leak, setting the `max-requests-per-instance` setting in [`puppetserver.conf`][puppetserver.conf] to something other than the default of 0 limits the number of requests a JRuby handles during its lifetime and enables automatic JRuby flushing. Enabling this setting reduces overall performance, but if you enable it and no longer see signs of persistent memory leaks, check your module code for inefficiencies or memory-consuming bugs.

> > **Note:** In multithreaded mode, the `max-requests-per-instance` setting refers to the sum total number of requests processed by the single JRuby instance, across all of its threads. While that single JRuby is being flushed, all requests will suspend until the instance becomes available again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** In `multithreaded` mode, the `max-requests-per-instance` setting refers to the sum total number of requests processed by the single JRuby instance, across all of its threads. While that single JRuby is being flushed, all requests will suspend until the instance becomes available again.
```
(nit)

Author: This is inconsistent right now, but I think we should only use the backticks when referring to the setting. When just describing the mode, I think they should be left off. I can fix the other places if that makes sense to folks?

Reviewer: That works for me, as long as we're consistent. 😊
